# Real-Time-Image-Detection-Application-Using-Deep-CNN
As mentioned in the topic, we created our own dataset to train the proposed CNN model. Our data set consists of 4813 samples. The samples are images of fingers from the right hand counting from one to five; which result in 5 classes. To ensure variations in the samples, images are taken with few diverse backgrounds and light intensity. In addition, we introduced augmentation to our dataset by rotating the position of the fingers into different, but natural orientations. During the data collection process, the images were taken at a fixed distance from the right-hand staring from the wrist. The original size of the images is 4032 x 3024 pixels. We wrote a code in python to re-size and label the samples so that they can be imported properly and used by the model to train on. For our proposed model, we resized the pictures to 128X128 pixels.

A Deep CNN was implemented in python to properly count the number of fingers in each image. To train the model a separate python code was written which re-sized the images uniformly to 128 X128 pixels. The data was then placed in appropriate folders and a python code was written to label the images, normalize them by dividing each pixel in each image by 255. To ensure consistency in our classification (e.g. remove biasness) accuracy the data was randomly shuffled. The dataset was then split into training set, validation set and testing set by first splitting the data between training and validation with a ratio of 70% to 30% and then splitting the validation set resulting from the first split into validation and testing with a 50% ratio. The validation set was used to select a correct number of epochs to prevent overtraining. After the model was trained it was thrown at the testing partition of the data to measure its accuracy. The results will be discussed in the results section. For our dataset the result of this operation was 3369 images in training set, 722 images in validation and 722 images in testing.

The training path for the most accurate model resulting from the above experiments was saved as finger_recognition.ckpt and used to build a detection application.
